---
published: true
layout: post
title: ARC-8&colon; devlog &num;2 - Blazor
categories: Labs
tags: devlog dotnet blazor unity3d gamedev emulator arc8 arc8-devlog
---
Some years ago I coded a CHIP-8 emulator in C# just for fun, that emulator was hibernating in a private repository that I never released. Some days ago I started to working on it again with the idea to release it running on Blazor and as a Unity asset where any game developer could drag its prefabs as easter eggs directly to their games.

{% logo arc-8.png default %}

In this post, I will talk about **how I implemented the graphics, sound, input, and log systems for Blazor**.

You can read the others [ARC-8's devlog posts](/tags/arc8-devlog).

{% note The source code is not yet published on GitHub, I will notify in this series of posts about ARC-8 devlog and on my [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ogiacomelli) too when this happens. %}

## Introduction
[Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/aspnet/web-apps/blazor) is a feature of ASP.NET that extends the .NET developer platform with tools and libraries for building web apps.
> Blazor can run your client-side C# code directly in the browser, using WebAssembly. Because it's real .NET running on WebAssembly, you can re-use code and libraries from server-side parts of your application.

This is why we can use our `ARC-8 Core`, mentioned in the previous [devlog](/arc-8-devlog-1), because it is a `.NET Standard class library` and can run directly on Blazor web assembly.

{% note For some components, like menu, inputs, and buttons I use the [Blazorise library](https://blazorise.com/). %}

## Online demo
You can test and play the CHIP-8's games directly on your browser with our online demo: [ARC-8 Blazor Online Demo](/apps/arc-8).
{% youtube 9eHBdCTipZs %}

## Systems interfaces implementations
{% icon component.png %}
The system interfaces `IGraphic`, `ISound`, `IInput`, and `ILog` will be implemented as [Blazor components](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/?view=aspnetcore-3.1#:~:text=Blazor%20apps%20are%20built%20using,Components%20are%20flexible%20and%20lightweight.).

>  A component is a self-contained chunk of user interface (UI), such as a page, dialog, or form. A component includes HTML markup and the processing logic required to inject data or respond to UI events. Components are flexible and lightweight. They can be nested, reused, and shared among projects.

{% screenshot arc-8-blazor-components.jpg %}

## Chip8Graphic.razor component (IGraphic)
{% icon graphic.png %}
This a simplified version of `IGraphic` implementation (without of color selector that you can see in the demo).

### C# side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 Chip8Graphic.razor %}

### JS side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 chip8-helper-graphic.js %}

#### OnAfterRenderAsync method
In the method `OnAfterRenderAsync` we verify if it's the component's first render, then we call a JS method that will initialize a JS helper for `Chip8Graphic.razor` that will return the size of the canvas to C# code, then we use this information to scale our 64 x 32 CHIP-8's display.

> OnAfterRenderAsync and OnAfterRender are called after a component has finished rendering. Element and component references are populated at this point. Use this stage to perform additional initialization steps using the rendered content, such as activating third-party JavaScript libraries that operate on the rendered DOM elements.

#### Draw method
This is one of the two methods needed to be implemented of `IGraphic` interface. We received the array (64x32) of bytes representing the current state of CHIP-8 graphics and just update our local array variable `_gfx`.

#### RenderAsync method
The method `RenderAsync` will be called by the `Chip8Loader` component during the [Game Loop](https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/game-loop.html).

This method is used to draw the state of CHIP-8 graphics (_gfx array) to the HTML page. 
We use a second array called `_buffer` to implement a [Double Buffer](https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/double-buffer.html) and reduce the `screen flickering`. 
{% note A byte with value 1 should be drawn (foreground color) and a byte with value 0 should not be drawn (background color). %}

#### Invalidate method
This is the second of the two methods needed to be implemented of `IGraphic` interface, but as we implemented a Double Buffer, this method does not need to perform any operation.

#### Resize method
Called by the JS side every time that the user resizes the browser window.

#### ClearCanvasAsync method
We use this one to invalidate our `_buffer` and reset the canvas to the background color.

## Chip8Sound.razor component (ISound)
{% icon sound.png %}
This a simplified version of `ISound` implementation.

### C# side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 Chip8Sound.razor %}

### JS side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 chip8-helper-sound.js %}

#### OnInitialized method
We just use the information from `NavigationManager` to set the audio file we want to play.

#### Play method
This is the only method we need to implement of `ISound` interface and it just calls a JS method that will get the `audio` tag on the component, set the `AudioSource`, then load, and play it.

## Chip8Input.razor component (IInput)
{% icon joystick.png %}
This is the `IInput` implementation.

### C# side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 Chip8Input.razor %}

### JS side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 chip8-helper-input.js %}

#### Key mapping
First we create the dictionary `_map` to map the real keyboard keys to CHIP-8 keypad keys.
The second dictionary we create is `_keyDown`. It will be used to map what keys the player is pressing.

#### OnAfterRenderAsync method
We call the JS method `chip8Input.init` that will add two event listeners, one for `keydown` and the other for `keyup` that will call the C# methods `HandleKeyDown` and `HandleKeyUp`.

#### UpdateKeys method
The only method we need to implement for `IInput` interface. 
In this method, we set to `1` the CHIP-8's keypad keys that were pressed by the player.

#### HandleKeyDown and HandleKeyUp methods
This method is responsible to set the `_keyDown` dictionary by the keyboard keys that the player pressed.

## Chip8Log.razor component (ILog)
{% icon logging.png %}
This is a simplified version of the `ILog` implementation.

### C# side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 Chip8Log.razor %}

#### Debug and Error methods
The two methods implemented for `ILog` interface use the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.ILogger<T>` to send log messages to the browser console.

## Chip8Loader.razor
{% icon package.png %}
This is a simplified version of the component responsible to load all systems (IGraphic, ISound, IInput, and ILog), initialize the `Chip8` class emulator,  load the ROM and perform the game loop.

### C# side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 Chip8Loader.razor %}

### JS side
{% gist 0edd94eed39b8f03c9b46f0562983d10 chip8-helper-loader.js %}

#### OnAfterRenderAsync method
Initializes the emulator with the systems, then calls the JS `chip8Loader.init` function that will use the browser [window.requestAnimationFrame](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/window/requestAnimationFrame) to call the C# method `RunCycle`.

> The window.requestAnimationFrame() method tells the browser that you wish to perform an animation and requests that the browser calls a specified function to update an animation before the next repaint. 

#### RunCycle method
This method is called by the JS  (`window.requestAnimationFrame`).
We implement a [Game Loop](https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/game-loop.html) and in the end, call the `Chip8Graphic.RenderAsync`.

## Next step
{% icon conclusion.png %}
In the next [ARC-8 devlog](/tags/arc8-devlog) I will talk about the ARC-8's implementation on Unity3D.

If you have any doubts about what I talk about above or any tip about the CHIP-8 emulator (or Blazor) and you like to share it, please let me know in the comments section below.

## Further reading
{% icon programmer.png %}
* [Blazor Tutorial - Build your first Blazor app](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/aspnet/blazor-tutorial/intro)
* [Blazorise quick-start](https://blazorise.com/docs/start/)
* [Create and use ASP.NET Core Razor components](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/?view=aspnetcore-3.1#:~:text=Blazor%20apps%20are%20built%20using,Components%20are%20flexible%20and%20lightweight.)
* [ASP.NET Core Blazor lifecycle](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/lifecycle?view=aspnetcore-3.1)
* [Call JavaScript functions from .NET methods in ASP.NET Core Blazor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/call-javascript-from-dotnet?view=aspnetcore-3.1)
* [ASP.NET Core Blazor logging](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/fundamentals/logging?view=aspnetcore-3.1)
* [Double Buffer](https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/double-buffer.html)
* [Game Loop](https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/game-loop.html)
* [RequestAnimationFrame](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/window/requestAnimationFrame)

{% iconscopyright %}